When your supply levels exceed the demand of the customer,
you will have a surplus of supplies.
Surplus can mean you will have money
tied into supplies purchased that are not needed or used.
As a result, you will have long supply in inactive stock
in the facility.
This could result in budgetary issues and being unable
to buy stock you need.
An example here again
could be gowns used in the women's clinic.
Say the demand for the women's clinic has changed,
but this time there has been a decrease
in the women Veterans coming to the facility.
As a result, demand for gowns has decreased
from 100 gowns per week to 50 gowns per week.
The logistic staff has not been informed of this
and continues to supply 100 gowns per week.
In this example, the current amount of supply
exceeds the amount to meet demand needed
for the area that you supply.
Due to the change in demand, the women's clinic
has more than the amount needed to provide to patients
double the amount needed.
As a result, the needs of the patients per week
will be met but 50% of the amount of gowns
will sit in the area not being used.
These gowns could have been used in another clinic.
As a consequence, it may cause a shortage in another area
unless the amount of gowns supplied is decreased
to accurately meet the demand.